ninth year quite close to the ground in
anyway by space standards
fly asteroid apophis diameter to
300 meters and then he will return through
seven years and in 2036 theoretically not
its collision with our
the planets are alas not a scarecrow and not a script
from a horror movie
and terrifying truth and now more and more
specialist fight over how you can
prevent asteroid collision
and steer it off the ground
some suggestions are quite
nontrivially for example send to drains
the office of the aircraft which
spray paint and paint the asteroid in
black white color why and if it helps
save our planet about this you will learn
from our final material in
night of 3 to 4 july 1994 astronomers
of the whole world were frozen in a telescope on their
eyes tragedy was played it was
space attack on our neighbor
a huge comet approached jupiter
then fell apart and crashed into
the planet
the effect was terrible the explosion was so powerful
that the temperature of the atmosphere has risen by
a few degrees and the sky rose
a cloud the size of our land
a disaster on jupiter forced scientists
feel the whole vulnerability of the earth
before the space killers began
advanced searches for dangerous objects and
developing methods of protection against them is one
that killer already found this asteroid
apophis by the calculations of scientists in 2029 and in
boulder with a diameter of 300 meters and
weighing 100 million tons will pass between
the earth and the moon just a distance
thirty six thousand kilometers from our
planets and although the likelihood of collision
negligible nevertheless it really
falling apophis the world ocean will cause
tsunami is 300 times more powerful than us 2004
years in the indian ocean which carried away
200 thousand lives if apophis crashes
in the ground it will be tantamount to an explosion
several megatons of their nuclear bombs
such a blow can completely change the nature
planets and destroy civilization
There are currently two options.
protection from space killer one of their
blow up an asteroid using atomic
bombs like brave blues did
willis movie armageddon
however such a radical way is good
only for bad hollywood
blockbusters in fact instead of one
large bodies on the ground can fall down
hail of fragments slightly smaller
Tunguska meteorite second version
protection of flight path change
asteroid curious idea put forth
american scientist david dunhill he
suggested using
asteroid reflectivity
color it in contrasting colors
stay voice all asteroids rotate in
reflectivity dependence
dust on their surface their trajectories
movements may vary slightly
builds gets a boost from solar
light on one side and then gets
push in the form of outgoing heat on the other
which causes it to rotate it
called and Yarkovsky's test
if we can change the reflective
asteroid capacity amount of heat
which it absorbs and the amount
the light which it reflects then we can
change the effect of yarkovsky and force
asteroid move on somewhat different
trajectories that is if using
spacecraft inflict
contrasting colors on different sides
asteroid then you can speed up its rotation
and change the flight path
already developed some techniques
which will allow such
operations with small asteroids
the size of 15-20 meters but this method
has its drawbacks asteroid is not
the ball is not a very perfect figure
the wrong shape is wrong of those bodies and
let's say we paint this asteroid but
calculate the result of the change in light
pressure itself it acts very
difficult and most likely with such a large
a mistake that we cannot say what it is
will result and if we cannot predict
the result is not worth it and do
otherwise, we can even hurt ourselves except
asteroid painting
There are other ways to divert space
body with a dangerous trajectory it can be
surface explosion that will change it
orbit using laser beam
rays or gravity tractor
However, according to scientists, not one
The way to the end is not calculated to
X hours left 24 years old I want to believe
that during this time, scientists will still find
the best solution to the problem otherwise we
It remains to rely only on luck and
maybe Russian Julia will carry
Grabovskaya Svetlana Garmash Alexander
Petrov
analytical program postscript